---
published: true
title: Window Shopping through Time
layout: post
tags: [Maps, Victoria, 1800s, 19thCentury, ]
---
I live in Victoria, British Columbia, Canada. I moved here for University about five years ago from Calgary, Alberta. I had visited Victoria growing up and always enjoyed the beautiful buildings and atmosphere of the downtown core. However in the last five years I have completely fallen in love with this town. The city of Victoria was first founded as a trading fort for the Hudson's Bay Company in 1843. Approximately a decade later, in 1858,  and the discovery of some gold, Victoria was a boom town. It was the same year that the first local newspaper was published; the British Colonist. As a volunteer for the local Maritime Museum, I learned that this newspaper had been < a href:"http://www.britishcolonist.ca/"> digitally archived </a> for public access. (Check it out! Its full of hidden gems) <br> <br> This was the inspiration for my project below. The first years of the newspaper it was predominately ads. Now thanks to the fact that Victoria seemingly undergoes construction at what seems to be a snails pace, many of those ads provide locations and streetnames that still exist. I decided that it would be interesting to attempt to map out the stores of early Victoria using the ads from the British Colonist on November 7, 1859. Unfortunately I was unable to include every advertisment as many of the addresses were extremely vauge or referred to local buildings that I, a hundred and fifty seven years later, were unable to locate. I hope you enjoy window shopping through 1859! <iframe width='100%' height='500px' frameBorder='0' src='https://a.tiles.mapbox.com/v4/slmck.22766db3/attribution,zoompan,zoomwheel,geocoder,share.html?access_token=pk.eyJ1Ijoic2xtY2siLCJhIjoiY2l1dHh5ejhpMDI3bzJubGdqcXZibTYyOSJ9.mFguinUHqhfozm-emjSLaw'></iframe>
